[MUSIC]
Before fitting any model we first need
to specify all of its components.
One convenient way to do this is to write
down the hierarchical form of the model.
By hierarchy, we mean that the model
is specified in steps or in layers.
We usually start with the model for
the data directly, or the likelihood.
For example, let's write, again,
the model from the previous lesson.
We had the height for person i,
given our parameters mu and
sigma squared,.
So conditional on those parameters,
yi came from a normal
distribution that was independent and
identically distributed,
where the normal distribution has
mean mu and variance sigma squared.
And we're doing this for individuals 1
up to n, which was 15 in this example.
The next level that we need is the prior
distribution from mu and sigma squared.
For now we're going to say that
they're independent priors.
So that our prior from mu and
sigma squared
is going to be able to factor Into
the product of two independent priors.
We can assume independents
in the prior and
still get dependents in
the posterior distribution.
In the previous course we learned that
the conjugate prior for mu, if we know
the value of sigma squared, is a normal
distribution, and that the conjugate
prior for sigma squared when mu is known
is the inverse gamma distribution.
Those might seem like natural choices so
let's write them down.
Let's suppose that our prior distribution
for mu is a normal distribution
where mean will be mu 0.
This is just some number that
you're going to fill in here
when you decide what the prior should be.
Mean mu 0, and less say sigma squared
0 would be the variance of that prior.
The prior for
sigma squared will be inverse gamma,
we'll write inverse gamma like that.
And the inverse gamma
distribution has two parameters.
It has a shape parameter,
we're going to call that nu 0, and
a scale parameter, we'll call that beta 0.
Of course, we need to choose values for
these hyper parameters here.
But we do now have
a complete Bayesian model.
We now introduce some new ideas that were
not presented in the previous course.
Another useful way to
write out this model Is
using what's called
a graphical representation.
To write a graphical representation,
we're going to do the reverse order,
we'll start with the priors and
finish with the likelihood.
In the graphical representation
we draw what are called nodes so
this would be a node for mu.
The circle means that the this is a random
variable that has its own distribution.
So mu with its prior will
be represented with that.
And then we also have sigma squared.
The next part of a graphical model is
showing the dependence on other variables.
So once we have the parameters,
we can generate the data, for example.
We have y1, y2, and so forth, down to yn.
These are also random variables,
so we'll create these as nodes.
And I'm going to double up
the circle here to indicate that
these nodes are observed,
you see them in the data.
So we'll do this for all of the ys here.
And to indicate the dependence of
the distributions of the ys on mu and
sigma squared, we're going to draw arrows.
So mu influences the distribution of y for
each one of these ys.
The same is true for
sigma squared, the distribution of
each y depends on the distribution
of sigma squared.
Again, these nodes right here,
that are double-circled,
mean that they've been observed.
If they're shaded,
which is the usual case,
that also means that they're observed.
The arrows indicate the dependence
between the random variables and
their distributions.
Notice that in this
hierarchical representation,
I wrote the dependence of
the distributions also.
We can simplify the graphical model by
writing exchangeable random variables and
I'll define exchangeable later.
We're going to write this using
a representative of the ys
here on what's called the plate.
So I'm going to re draw this hierarchical
structure, we have mu and sigma squared.
And we don't want to have to
write all of these notes again.
So I'm going to indicate that
there are n of them, And
I'm just going to draw one representative,
yi.
And they depend on mu and sigma squared.
To write a model like this, we must
assume that the ys are exchangeable.
That means that the distribution for
the ys does not change if we
were to switch the index label
like the i on the y there.
So, if for some reason, we knew that one
of the ys was different from the other
ys in its distribution, and
if we also know which one it is, then we
would need to write a separate node for
it and not use a plate like we have here.
Both the hierarchical and
graphical representations
show how you could hypothetically
simulate data from this model.
You start with the variables that
don't have any dependence on any other
variables.
You would simulate those, and
then given those draws, you would simulate
from the distributions for these other
variables further down the chain.
This is also how you might simulate
from a prior predictive distribution.
[MUSIC]